Hi.
So here let's jump into the code for the operating module.
So the first thing is we're going to have to import the operator module so we can simply do an import
operator to import the entire module.
If you just want specific items from operator just you know say from operator import whatever you want
to import.
So however you want to do it you can also look at what's inside you can do a help an operator or you
can do a door to see all the attributes and you can see the ones that we've talked about in the lecture
we have.
And there's an absolute value you have the and that the boolean and good attribute getter concat contains
count of the lead item.
You know the quality equals equals Q floor.
And so on are a bunch of others as well.
Um you know you've got the floor the version you have now.
These ones with like I power or I add.
And so on will look at that later in the section on object to programming.
These are basically the In-Place.
So for example I add is the equivalent functional equivalent to the plus equals operator.
And of course these actually although we think that they behave like a equals a plus one the plus equals
actually can behave a little differently and we'll get into the details of that and to the nitty gritty
details of that later on in the schools.
But that's what those are and that's why you have the eye in front for the in-place operators.
We have a bunch of other ones like I drew.
Well I do but you also have Truda of which is the real division.
You know you've got the ex-SO power and so on.
So let's start taking a look at some of the arithmetic operators just to see how it works.
So for example if we want to add let's say two numbers while we can say one plus two.
Right.
We can write it that way I can type it one plus two.
But we also call it using a Mefford using a function I should say operator dot and one comma too.
And that returns the sum of 1 and 2.
So it's just a functional equivalent to the plus we have that for multiplication so we can say uprated
no.
Let's say two and three that will get six.
You can do operator dog true division 3 and two that will give us 1.5.
You can say uprated that the flow division let's say 13 and 2 that should return 6.
All right.
Twenty six.
That's the same thing as saying 13 Div 2.
So you have the Mod operator and so on.
So there's a bunch of these arithmetic operators that are available.
You can certainly look at the documentation see what's there.
What does do the door or help on the model.
And you'll get information there as well.
So why this where it can be useful.
Well think back to what we did in The Last Lecture.
Well not this lecture on the operating model but on the higher order functions than the reduce for example
the math.
Right.
We were passing in functions and we were creating all our own lambdas to add two things together or
to multiply two things together two variables together.
So let's see how we might use them.
So let's go ahead and from fun tools let's just reduce what we need from there.
So let's import that and let's think back to one of the previous examples.
Very simple.
We want to let's say multiply all the items in a list.
Right.
So we created a lambda that took in two parameters x and y and it just returned X times Y and then we
passed in a list that's a 1 2 3 and 4 right.
And this gave us 1 times 2 which is 2 times 3 which is 6 times 4 which is 24.
So we have 24.
So think back to the lecture that we had on Reduce.
But you'll notice that we had to create this lambda function here.
And all it really did was really make a functional equivalent of the multiplication operator.
Well that's what the operator module gives us.
So we don't have to do that.
Instead we can just say operator dot Moe and they will pass in one two three and four as well and we
get the same result.
So you can see where this might be useful.
Basically it gives you a functional equivalent so you can use that wherever you would need that functionally
equivalent.
You don't have to write your own death you know definition for a function.
Your own def will lambda however you want to do it.
Now we also have comparison operators.
So again you could say operator less than is 10 less than three.
The answer is false.
Right.
Ten is not less than three.
You also have the is.
Now that is of course is going to be with the under school.
So it doesn't clash with the built in is function.
And the reason why you might think well how can a clash.
Right.
I'm saying operator that is.
Well remember you can say from operator.
Import is.
And now I can just use is by itself I don't have to prefix it with operator because I've imported it
directly.
If the name had been is then that's going to clash with the built in is an operator in Python.
So is let's say is ABC the same as the f.
And of course the answer would be false.
Right.
What about is of ABC and ABC.
I remember about interning all the way back to the beginning of the Cause remember about Python intoning
strings for us.
So in this case ABC and ABC are indeed the same object not just the same values.
You can also look at the truthiness or there's a doctrine function so you can say operator dark truth
and you pass and let's say an empty list that should get us false empty lists or falsie and you can
do the same thing.
But passing in let's say a list that has at least one element and then the values.
Truth is truth because it has a NLM that's not an empty list.
OK so that's those are pretty straightforward right.
They're just functional equivalent to what we've seen before.
So let's look at attribute an element getters and setters because those can be a little bit more interesting
and a little bit more complicated as well.
So let's start with a list.
Let's say my list equals 1 2 3 4.
OK.
Now I've got this list and I can request an element at a specific index.
That's a sequence type.
So let's say I want my list are at and I want the element that index 1.
Well let's return to.
Right.
It's this element right here.
OK.
Now sometimes though we need to be able to do this using kind of more of a functional call.
So how do we do that.
Well that's by using the Get item in the function in the operator module.
So we would say operator doglegs item and get item is going to be it's going to take my list and I want
item number one.
So at index 1 and we get 2 so we get the same thing.
So this and this are essentially equivalent.
Now if the sequence is mutable we can also set or remove items.
So the same thing can be done here.
So let's say we want to save my list.
Now this is immutable right.
It's a list that's mutable.
So I can set my list to 100.
Right now I can print my list out and you can see that we changed the second element to 100 while we
can also go ahead and delete something so we can say delete my list 3 so we'll delete the last item
right.
0 1 2 3 we're going to delete the last item.
So now if we look at my list we're left with one.
One hundred and three we deleted four from there.
So these are operations that we can do on sequences.
We'll come back to them when we do sequence times in more detail.
But of course we can do the same operations using the operator models functions.
So here let me redefine my list again equal to we'll start with the same list as before.
One two three four but now I'm going to say.
Operator.
Dark set.
So I want to set an item on my list.
I want to set the.
Which item.
We set the item number one that index 1 so 1 and we set it to a value of 100.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And now let's print this out again.
And as you can see just as before.
Now we have 100 in the second position.
We also delete an item using the same technique.
So the operators dart the lead item.
Now we want to delete an item from my list and we want to delete the last item in this case it was position
number three.
So we yeah I can type.
Eventually I'll get it right.
There we go.
Operator dot Del item is the lead item from my list at position 3.
So now if you look at my list or do we have we have the same thing as before we actually remove the
last element.
So again these are functional equivalent to what we're doing here with indexing.
Right.
And either getting or setting these values OK.
So we did the said item the lead item and get item but the get item returns a value it actually takes
two parameters it takes the object the sequence type we're interested in and the index that we're interested
in and returns the actual element at that position.
Right so it returns the value of the value of course could be a function if your sequence happens to
contain functions.
While it will return a function right.
But it's going to return that element.
So there is a thing where if you think back to partial functions that we did before.
Right.
So get item requires two arguments.
It requires the object and requires the index while we have this thing in the operating module called
the item getter.
So I get to think of it as a partial function which will you specify the index but you don't specify
the list so that will come later.
So that's why we can think of this as a partial.
Essentially how do we do this.
Let's go ahead and I'm going to assign it to a variable for now so we can say operator Dark's item getter.
So item getter is something that will get an item and it will get the item at position 2.
But of course if you look at f f is a function right.
F is not a value.
It's actually a function
it's an operator item getter.
But that's a that's a type function.
So it's a callable essentially.
So we need to call it but we can't call it with nothing that's going to say Well no because I didn't
get her expected one argument and got zero.
Yes.
Remember if it's a partial function it still needs this object.
So let's go ahead and let's redefine my list again and let's say we want to get half of my list and
we get 3.
Because remember what was f it was I didn't get it too.
So 0 1 2 is the value 3.
So that's what got returned.
Now of course if we have as equals python we can say half of pass and we'll regret t 0 1 2.
Right.
This is the item at position 2 so item get a f. we'll get the element at position 2 for whatever gets
passed in.
So this can be quite useful we'll see that when we look at some examples of how to apply this let's
say to solving.
Right.
And we'll see where that's useful.
The next thing also that I want to point out with item getter that we saw in the lecture is that you
can have more than one argument an item getter.
It takes a variable number of arguments.
So let's take a look.
Let's say that F equals operator dot item getter.
And let's say we want item number at position to an item at position 3.
So again if we look at the type of aircraft it's not a value it's a function it's a callable right.
It's an item get a callable and it's now still waiting to be called with whatever object we want to
pass it.
So let's say we say my list equals 1 2 3 4.
OK.
And now we can call half of my list and we get the 2 pool 3 and 4 because we got items 2 and 3 right.
If I did items 1 2 and 3 then we'd get 2 3 and 4.
Right.
So we can pass in as many as we want.
Obviously if you pass in more let's say I say I want you know 2 3 and 4 right.
Then when we apply it to him we're going to get an index out of range because two and three are OK but
four is not.
So just be careful with that right.
There's no magic here.
The owner was not available for that to fail.
OK.
So let's go back to one is to send it back to two and three.
Get
and of course if we apply this to you know we apply this to my lists.
Right.
We did that and we got items three and four.
But of course we can apply this to a string and we can say as applied to Python that will give us TMH.
Right.
It's the same thing it's just whatever sequence type gets passed in now the attribute getter that we
saw in the lecture works it's kind of similar to item get.
But I didn't get it if you think about it.
It's taking an index attribute get her on the other hand is going to work with objects and it's going
to look for attribute names.
So it's going to basically taking strings as parameters not integers which are presenting indices.
So let's talk about and let's define a very simple class.
Let's say my class and we're going to initialize the class arm.
So in the arm when we're initialising we'll create three properties a b and c sets to 10 20 and 30 respectively.
OK.
So that's that.
And then we also go into the fine.
So now this class has three attributes which are properties A B and C..
We're also going to create one more attribute which is going to be a method and it's just going to do
this going to say test method running.
OK.
So that's all that method does.
It's just going to print out test method running so very very simple class.
Now let's see how we might be able to retrieve those values invoke that function using the attribute
getter function in the module operator in the operator module sorry.
So let's go ahead and create an object because an instance of my class.
So now we have object.
So object is an instance of my class and it has properties like a.
It has a property like B.
Right.
It also has a property called first.
And you can see it's just telling you hey this is a bound method of my class that test to this object
object.
Right.
So it's an instance method.
It hasn't call it.
You'll notice that it just tells me hey this is what God returned.
Test is callable in order to call it.
I have to put these parentheses in.
Now I'd call that method.
And now we can see test method running.
So I just wanted to really point out the difference between this and this.
This returns the method this calls the method.
OK.
So now let's see how we might do that using the operator model using the attributes.
So attribute it takes a string as a parameter.
And in this case I know that I have an attribute called a.
So I'm just going to pass in this string and the string will contain the name of the attribute that
I'm looking for in this case the Prop. 8.
If I do that I'm going to get this.
Now this is a callable right because as I specified which object I want to get the attribute a full
note.
So this is like item get.
It's returning a callable.
This thing is a callable.
It needs to know which object you want to apply this to.
So let's go ahead and give it a name.
Let's say Property A.
OK let's call it that.
Now I need to call it but I need to call it telling it which object I'm interested in.
I'm going to tell it while I'm interested in Object RBJ.
And so when I do that now I get the value turned back.
OK.
Obviously I cannot call it this way.
It will complain say no you can't.
Just like we saw with item Geter.
So attribute getter is no different.
I have to tell it which object.
So you might say well why you know I mean why why can't I just say you know RBJ dot a.
Well what happens if let's say the property name right or the property that you're interested in returning
let's say in your program is dependent on something else.
Maybe it's stored in a variable and the variable contains the property name.
So let's say my VAR equals B.
And now I want to return an object docked.
Well what can I do.
Can I say object.
Doc MAIAVA.
Well the answer is no because my class right.
Object right doesn't have a property called my VAR vault.
Python is looking for a property called my dislike when I say it's looking for a property called a.
So I can't do that.
Instead what I could do though is I could do it this way I can use the attribute getter attribute get
just once a string.
So that's OK I'm giving it the string and that's now going to return.
You can see attribute get a B it's the same thing as if I typed in and hardcoded the value being there
except now the property name I'm interested in is stored in a variable.
So that could be useful in certain circumstances.
Now obviously this doesn't actually get cold.
It's a callable and I need to tell it which object I'm interested in when I actually want to get there
so I can either call it directly sway or if I want and I need to read it multiple times I may say property
be called property might that well actually property be in this case.
OK.
Because once the actual begetter is created.
Be careful if you change by later on to see this attribute getter callable code probably isn't going
to magically change.
Right.
So let's let's actually see that let's say Prop B of J K we get 20 back.
Now let's say I set my vote equal to c k.
So if I do that and I call Prop B of RBJ I'm not going to get the value for seabag which was 30.
I'm still getting 20 back.
So just be little bit aware of that.
All right.
Also attribute Geter can take in more than one.
So we can look at operator the attributes together.
Let's say a and b applied to object B to object or B J and we get 10 and 20 back.
So you can specify multiple things.
Right.
And if you want you could even say a comma be comma.
And here I'm going to call it test equals and you're going to say I'm looking for the attribute test.
OK.
So a is 10 B is 20.
And what's the first test is that method again.
So we want we can call it like this.
Right.
But remember this test method here the callable here that's assigned to the variable name test is actually
the test method that's bound to this object here because it was specific to that object.
All right so of course a lot of that stuff you can do using Lander's as well.
Right you could always say lambda X returns X dot 8.
Right.
And we give that a name right.
And now we can say f r b j.
You can do that as well in this way in this way as you know equivalently It's no different.
Same thing with item getter.
If you want you can say equals lambda X return x 2.
For example snarfed X equals 1 2 3 4 looking for X that's greater than 3.
Or maybe you wanted to do the same thing that I didn't get a double attribute get a does with multiple
values.
Well you could say something like this return X to an x 3.
Right.
So what are we going to return here.
We're actually returning a tuple right.
So define it this way.
And now when I do that I get three full background I get items two and three.
So obviously you can use your own lambda functions as well or what you want.
In some cases though using the operator module might be a little easier.
Let's look at a use case let's look at Sony.
So let's look at soring where let's say we have complex numbers so we'll call the lecture on complex
numbers.
Let's say we have a complex number.
April 5 plus 10 J.
Right so is just this complex number here five plus 10 J.
Now a has a real path which is fine also has an imaginary parent which is 10.
So suppose we have a list that contains multiple complex numbers and we want to solve them based on
the real path of the numbers.
So we have five minus 10 J.
We have three plus three J.
And then maybe we have to minus 100 J K.
So here we have this list and we want to sort L..
Now we can just call sawder right because complex numbers don't support less than or greater than there's
no way to do that.
So we saw that what we could have done and we did that in the past before we use let's say the distance
of the complex number from the origin.
That was one way of sorting here.
I just want to say that based on the real part.
So I want Basically I want this to be sorted in increasing order based on the real power of 2 3 and
5.
So what should my key be what my key needs to be something that's going to return the real power.
So I can certainly do this I can say X and then look at X got real.
So now if we do that that's sort of properly as we expected to 3 and 5 nodes there.
Of course we don't have to use lambda.
Instead we can use the operator.
And what are we looking for.
Well in this case we're looking for the attribute called real so we can say attributes get real.
That's another way of doing this.
Now remember attribute getter returns are callable which is expecting the number to get.
That's going to get passed then.
Which is exactly what he wants.
It wants a function here that takes a single parameter just like a lambda did.
So if we do this we get the same result.
Now you may also have another use case let's say you have a bunch of lists or a list that contains a
bunch of tuples.
Let's say for a bunch of lists doesn't matter.
Let's say we have 2 3 4 1 3 5.
Maybe we have 6 toes by itself and maybe we have all 4 and 100.
OK.
So this is our list and we want to sort these tuples based on the first item of each tuple.
So again we can to say sorted L.
Now our key would be what.
Well if we wanted to use Alamdar we would say lambda X return x 0.
Right.
And so this will solve it according to the first element of each one.
So that's perfectly fine but you can also use the operator module.
You can use now.
So what do we want.
Well in this case we want items right.
We want the item at position 0 so we want to use the item getter function and we want item get a 0.
So when we do that we get the exact same result.
So lastly I want to look at calling call obols again.
Now we've seen that already before in this class.
Remember we defined this class I'm going to copy this code will we use this.
And then we were able to call the test method by using the duct notation but we did the same thing by
basically extracting it using attribute together.
And to you know this third element of the tuple.
So let me just clean that up a little bit make it a little clearer.
OK so here's my class and now I'm going to say RBJ pull from an instance of my class and I'm going to
say.
Operator.
Dark attributes Geter.
We're going to retrieve the test attribute.
I'm going to call this F right.
That's now the test method that was bound to whatever's going to be passed into F..
So now half of RBJ is returning what it's returning that bound test method.
Just like we saw before.
Now I need to call it.
I need to do it this way.
Test method running.
So alternatively if we want to call it at the same time instead of using this kind of more convoluted
syntax we can use the operator method caller.
Right.
And so what do we want.
We want to call the test method.
Now this is going to be callable.
Right.
So this is going to return a callable that expects what works the least know the object.
So now we can call f of object and that will actually run the test method as opposed to just returning
it which is what attribute get it did right when we said F of object.
We actually got the method back here where we say F of object because we use method caller basically
Python put in this thing and actually called the method for us.
Now you can also pass in parameters extra parameters.
Let's say that this method here test requires an extra parameter then that might be a problem.
How are you going to pass that in.
And let's see what I mean by that.
So let's go ahead and we have this test method and let's say it needs another
parameter.
And then here what are we going to print.
We're going to print self-taught a self-taught B.
Well let me change that as well.
So now this class will only have two properties A and B.
And then we'll print C K.
So if we run all this again.
Get rid of all this.
Now we can say RBJ that a.
Right.
That's 10 object B's property is 20.
And now if we call object dot test it needs an extra parameter we call it just this way it says no no
you need an extra parameter.
So let's say we call it with 100.
Then you can see it printed out 10 and 20 which was the built in a and b and 100 as well.
So let's say now that we want to do this what we did here calling this method but using the method call
a function in the operator module.
How would we do that.
Well let's try it.
Let's say that we say operator Dark's method called We want to call test and we're going to call it
on the object.
OK.
So because object is the instance of my class.
But if we do that right we're going to get the same error that we had before.
It requires one rule.
There's one missing required positional argument.
We provided see how do we do it.
Where do we pass it.
Well method caller is nice about it.
It's going to take it right here.
So if I put in a 100 then we're going to get what we had before 10 20 or 100.
So basically it's going to take any arguments here.
Let's say I had C and D.
Right.
So if I have that and we redo this then here I've got to pass in 100 comic 200 and it two values.
Now we get that and I can achieve the same result using it this way.
So that works as well.
Now of course what happens if you have this and then we'll print as well.
So how would we call this one.
Well we need to pass in the two positions that are mandatory and their positions.
So 10 and 200 and here however we have a mandatory key keyword argument.
So we have to say p equals let's say 300.
So when we do that we get 10 20 or 100 200 300.
How about method color how would we do that there.
Well very simply.
E equals 300.
So method is going to gather up an arbitrary number of arguments so basically it's looking at Star Wars
and Star Star quolls.
Right.
He's going to collect those and then pass them out to this method His So when we run that we get the
same thing.
And of course you know we looked at method call but we also looked earlier at the attribute getter.
So if we do it this way right let's say F equals operated of attributes together.
Test OK.
So
we do that if we now say F off object we get this.
Now we need to call it right.
So we call it tells us hey you can't you're missing at least two positional requite arguments C and
D and hasn't even realized that we're also missing the key word only argument.
So how am I to do it.
Well you could do it here right.
But now I said all we need is well.
So go ahead and say B equals 100 and you've got the same thing again but when you're using method call
or remember colza method right away.
So here you can delay passing in the parameters until after attribute getter has come back.
It's called a ball here.
You can't so it will take it in as extra parameters and pass them through.
So that's quite neat.
So if you want more information on that then certainly you can look at the documentation the built in
you can do a help you can do it there but also suggest just going to this link right here.
It has a lot of really useful information on the standard operators as functions in the operator module
and it's pretty complete.
There's a lot of information there.
I suggest you look at that as well.
All right.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.